goal:

I want to develop a small and simple game to run in the browser.

I want it to use open source libraries as much as possible so that actual code we develop is less. I am thinking something like three.js but i'm open to whatever is best.

the game:

it fits in one screen
it has one html file and one js file (unless we really require more files to implement the game)
it is 2d and side on, it could be top down
it is about optimizing a "creature" to achieve a goal
like a car/bike going from a starting line to a finish line or a creature getting itself from start to finish
there could be a suite of a few environments to choose from later, maybe an env dev tool, but that can come later
envs are simple, a line or set of lines on which the creature touches and moves across
there is simple 2d physics and a simple spring or pulse mechanism that gives the creature movement

the user does not control the creature, they control the evolutionary process.
they have a flow diagram and can add/remove elements like mutate, crossover, elites, selection. each of these boxes may have some config like a rate or type. start simple but be extensible so we can expand it later
evolution is always running and changes to the flow diagram have effect on the next generation
fitness is probably time from start to finish. maybe later environments have multiple way points to hit that evolution needs to figure out
we need to show progress both per generation and across generation, maybe graph/numbers in the hud, maybe a ghost of the creature in the background showing what the best has achieved so far, not sure.
maybe a button to clear/reset
maybe a pause/resume
maybe use threads to do eval in parallel rather than sequentially so we can speed up time
maybe the env is quite zoomed out so the creatures have a long way to go
maybe we can zoom in and out
maybe we can add/remove/move waypoints at will with the mouse making the env dynamic
maybe we can also add/remove "ground" as well, also it would be nice if we can make the ground not contiguous so they have to figure out jumping or something.

next:

okay, think about this and give me a high-level design.
no code yet, just give me a terse summary to show you understand and can achieve a first version on this from which we can refine.
don't ask me questions unless you really need to get an answer.
